(cheerful music)
(eating loudly)
(stunned gasps)
That was good, thanks.
Okay, I'm heading out now!
Oh, where are you going?
I'm doing some training
with Mr. Sasuke today!
It's been so long since
Sasuke's been home.
Don't you think he might
want to relax a bit?
A shinobi knows no rest.
Sasuke'd probably say
something cool like that!
(giggles)
What is it, Mom?
You're just like your
dad when he was young.
Ugh!
Like dad?
Yeah.
Your dad was always
excited about going off
to train with his Master.
Hold on, dad had a master?
Yes, of course!
He was a great man
named Master Jiraiya.
Oh?
I totally wanna meet him!
Where is he?
Well, it's impossible.
He passed away.
Oh, I see.
We have some photos!
Wanna see?
Huh?
Yeah, let's see 'em!
(opening theme music)
"Make-Out Tactics"
[Hinata] That's him.
That's Master Jiraiya.
Whoa.
He looks wild and crazy!
Yes, you're right.
He does look that way!
But he was a very heroic man.
Not only was he a
teacher but in some ways
was like a father
figure to your dad.
Oh, yeah?
Granny Tsunade still
looks exactly the same!
[Himawari] Wow, she does!
And Kakashi Sensei hasn't
changed much, either!
[Himawari] Oh, look!
That's Sarada's mom
and Shikadai's dad!
That's Metal's
dad, Inojin's mom,
and Cho-Cho's dad, too, huh?
And that's Uncle
Neji, right, mom?
Yes.
He was my cousin.
But I don't really
think of him as that.
To me, he was more like a kind
and supportive older brother.
Huh?
Hold on.
How come Sasuke's not
in the picture with you?
[Hinata] Sasuke?
Oh, he was away at the time.
Too bad he wasn't there
to be in the photo!
Back then what was Sasuke like?
Huh?
Strong, right?
Oh!
Uh, yes!
Sasuke was always at the top
of our class in every lesson!
Yeah, I figured that
had to be the case!
Sasuke is totally awesome!
And he looks way cooler
than this old guy!
I think so, too!
Yeah!
Right?
But still, Master Jiraiya
was an amazing shinobi.
He even might've been stronger
than Sasuke or your dad.
What?
Come on, there's
no way that's true!
(humming)
Oh, hey, Sarada?
Hm?
What do you want
for dinner tonight?
Oh, I don't know.
Just make something
that Dad likes.
Speaking of which, where is he?
Did he go out already?
Yeah.
He had business with the Hokage.
If he's not actually
here when he's here,
it's no different than
staying away from the village.
(doorbell rings)
Huh?
Yes?
How's it going?
Boruto?
Hey!
Is Uncle Sasuke home?
He wasn't at the
training grounds,
so I thought he
might still be here.
Sorry, but Dad went to
the Hokage's office.
Ugh, seriously?
He went to see my dad?
Aw, man, and I really
wanted to train with him
and ask him about some stuff.
Ask him what?
Well, you probably
never heard of him,
but I wanted to ask about
someone by the name of Jiraiya.
Jiraiya, huh?
I think I've heard
that name before!
Huh?
Wait, really?
Oh, that's it!
(startled gasp)
"Leaf Flea Market"
The book's "Make-Out Tactics?"
Yeah.
Do you remember back
when we had Family Day?
Yeah.
Things between my Dad and me
were kinda awkward back then.
So, Kakashi Sensei
loaned that book to him
and said that he should read it.
He said that it would
help him understand
how his daughter feels.
I'm almost positive that
the author of that book--
Was Mister Jiraiya?
Yeah.
If you read his book, maybe
you'll learn more about him.
Oh, I get it!
[Sarada] I'm not sure
what the story is about,
but I think it has to do with
inter-personal relationships
and advice on how to build them.
Oh I see.
So it holds the secrets
to success in life!
Probably.
In any case, it's Kakashi
Sensei's favorite book.
So I'm sure it'll be useful.
Yeah.
So why're we here?
It's an old book,
so I figured it would be easiest
to find it at the flea market.
You're so on the ball, Sarada!
Okay, let's split up, look for
this Make-Out Tactics book,
-and--
-Thief!
(shocked gasps)
What's going on? Oh no!
Someone stop that guy!
Ready?
Hold it!
(shocked, frightened gasp)
(applause, cheering)
Don't break the rules,
or you'll pay the price!
Seriously.
Shino Sensei!
Boruto!
If you two were nearby,
then you shoulda caught him!
Uh, well, we...
Seriously, you guys
gotta stop relying on us
to fix all of your problems!
Yeah, right.
You just wanted to look
good in front of everybody.
(uncomfortable chuckle)
Huh?
You're asking if I know
about "Make-Out Tactics?"
Oh, uh, that's the book that
was written by Master Jiraiya,
that's what it is, right?
What's wrong?
Are you feeling okay?
Uh...
Yes, that's definitely the
book he wrote, all right.
So you knew Mister Jiraiya?
Oh, yeah, of course I knew him.
What was he like?
Well, what I can
tell you about him?
He was the Third
Hokage's student
and one of the Legendary Sannin.
I've heard that term before.
Who're the others?
Uh, Lady Tsunade and Orochimaru.
He was an amazing shinobi.
He taught two generations
of your family,
Lord Fourth and Lord Seventh.
You mean he taught my
dad and my Grandpa, too?
And was crucial in
two Great Ninja Wars.
He helped secure the peace
we now enjoy in the Leaf.
No way!
He was really that
impressive, huh?
There's no doubt about it!
Master Jiraiya was
an awesome shinobi!
But unlike me, he just
wasn't the right material
to become the Hokage.
Uh, what do you
mean, "unlike me?"
Oh, didn't you guys
know about this?
You see, back in the day, I
turned down the title of Hokage.
What?
Really?
Yeah.
Naruto and I competed
to become the Hokage.
I never heard that before.
(uncomfortable grunt)
But, Naruto had been
going on for so many years
about how he was
gonna become Hokage,
so I decided just
to let him have it.
And that's something not
even Naruto knows about.
Wow!
Yep, when I was around your age,
the village placed all their
hopes squarely on my shoulders.
(Shino uncomfortable grunt)
Well, just do your
best, you guys.
Yeah, so thanks for
sharing all that,
but what we'd asked you
is if you knew anything about
Jiraiya's "Make-Out
Tactics" book.
(nervous chuckle)
Seems it's his masterpiece
about the secret of success.
Well, I don't know if I'd
say that's quite what it is.
I think it's really
more of a novel
than a how-to book.
Oh, cool!
It's a novel?
Now I wanna read it even more!
[Both] No!
You can't!
And...
Why not?
Because you're
still way too young.
Mm-hmm.
We're still too young?
Man, what exactly could
be in that novel, anyway?
Maybe it's so
incredibly profound
that you can't
really understand it
unless you've gotten a little
more life experience first?
That makes sense.
So, it's way too profound, huh?
Now I wanna read
it more than ever!
Yeah, me, too.
[Cho-Cho] Sarada!
[Both] Hey!
(chuckle)
You're selling stuff here?
Yep!
Are these used clothes?
Yeah. My dad and I are
selling off some old stuff
that we just don't wear anymore.
But it seems that no
one's wants to buy them.
[Cho-Cho] I don't get why!
I mean, they're so cute!
Yeah, that's too bad.
Hey, Uncle Choji,
let me ask you,
have you ever read the
book, "Make-Out Tactics?"
-(shocked gasp)
-Huh?
[Boruto] We're trying
to find out more
about Mister Jiraiya.
Hey, hold on, dad.
You've read that
book, haven't you?
No! Well, I mean, uh...
It's a novel, right?
So is it a cool action
novel about a hero's journey
that's also really deep?
Right?
That's it, right?
Well, is it?
No, uh, well, that's, uh,
not exactly what it is--
Is it a mystery?
Well, it's more like--
Like what?
Uh, like a romance novel.
Whoa, seriously?
I totally wanna
read it, too, then!
Well, maybe you will someday.
Oh, that's right!
Master Jiraiya was the
one who taught Naruto!
Yeah!
That's what I heard too!
Naruto was just about the
age that you are now, Boruto
when he first began his
training under Master Jiraiya.
And your dad mastered
the Summoning Jutsu
and the Rasengan!
Really?
Oh, yeah!
Naruto was absolutely
incredible back then!
I mean, not that he
isn't right now, too!
Uh-huh.
Anyway, about this
"Make-Out Tactics" book
that you're looking for,
if you go right down that way,
you'll see the
antique shop's tent.
They have some old
books for sale.
Oh yeah?
They do?
(chuckle) I want
to read it, too!
-You gotta let me borrow it!
-Dad, look!
I think this t-shirt'll
actually fit me!
(robust laughter)
The stuff these guys're
selling in this stall
is just our style.
Hey, wait...
Aren't you two?
No way, it's you!
Son, take a look!
They're our eternal rivals!
Meeting you like this is fate!
Now we get to challenge
you one more time!
Who're you again?
Kui!
And Daore!
How could you ever forget about
our eating contest to the death?
Welcome to our store!
We're offering a limited-time
special right now.
What?
We are?
If you purchase
just three t-shirts,
then you get two more for free!
Did you hear that, dad?
That's a great deal!
Get to it, my dear son!
Go on!
The rest is up to you, dad.
Huh?
Boruto, Sarada!
Let's go!
-Excuse us.
-See ya!
[Daore] This one's so
cute, I want to eat it!
Excuse me.
By any chance do you have a
book called "Make-Out Tactics?"
Huh?
Uh, let's see.
It looks like there
are five or six books
in the "Make-Out" series.
We only need one.
Do you have any of 'em?
Hmm, let me look.
Just a minute.
I really hope they have it.
That'd be so great.
Oh, please, please, please!
Ah, here it is, right here!
(excited, eager gasp)
Yep, this is the one!
[All] Huh?
[Cho-Cho] Dad?
Sorry, but you're
not old enough yet!
Aw, c'mon, Dad!
Why?
And next up, in
scientific news, today,
a team of archeologists
from the Land of Fire
managed to recover an
artifact from the ocean floor
that they believe to be a
relic from ancient times.
Why is everyone saying we're
too young for this book?
All we really want to do
is to learn more
about Mister Jiraiya.
Yeah!
Right?
Seriously.
Them saying that makes me
want to read it even more!
Yeah.
Well I guess we have to give
it up, for today, at least.
Yeah, you're right.
Damn it!
I'm going to the
training grounds
to work out before I go home.
Maybe Sasuke'll be there, too.
'kay. Well, if you do see him,
tell him to come home early.
My mom's super happy
and is making something
special for him.
All right, you got it, Sarada.
See ya!
And thanks for today!
Yeah!
See you later!
Hey, Sasuke!
So you want to
know about Jiraiya?
And what brought this on?
Well, my mom said he
was an amazing shinobi.
Uh, is it really true
he was even stronger
than you and my dad?
She also told me
that the relationship
my dad had with Mister Jiraiya
was a lot like our
teacher-student relationship.
I'd say she's right about
the teacher-student
relationship part.
Although it's not
exactly the same thing.
What do you mean?
[Sasuke] Naruto trained very
rigorously under Jiraiya
to reach his goals,
and in the end
that became the seed that
grew into a deep bond.
That's pretty much
just like you and me.
You taught me the Rasengan
and Shuriken Jutsu!
That isn't quite the point here.
Naruto trained with Jiraiya
to protect something he felt
was worth risking his life for.
He had a profound influence
on who Naruto is today.
He's the one who taught Naruto
what it means to be a ninja
and how to walk
his own Ninja Way.
To Naruto, he was a master
but also like a father.
You and I haven't come close
to what he and Naruto
were to each other.
But I've heard that he
was a great shinobi.
Well, if you say so,
then it must be true.
Oh, right! There was an old
photo with a bunch of people
in it, including my dad
and Mister Jiraiya.
But not you.
Well, back then I
lost my way and--
What?
Don't tell me you got lost
and were late for
the photograph?
Yeah, you could say that.
Oh!
Right!
I forgot the most
important thing!
Can you ask Mr. Kakashi
and borrow his
Make-Out Tactics book?
Don't go there, all right?
Aww, c'mon!
I'm home.
-Oh, welcome back!
-Hey, welcome back!
Ugh, I'm so hungry.
And in further news
about the ancient relic
efforts are now underway
to break the Sealing Jutsu
that have been placed upon it.
The archaeological team
is still struggling
to decipher the
unusual pattern--
I've seen that
pattern somewhere.
Learn anything about
Master Jiraiya?
Yeah.
Well, kinda.
Hey, so what was Dad like when
he was around my age, anyway?
Huh?
Why the sudden interest?
Well, it's around
the same time, right?
He was about my age when
Mister Jiraiya taught him
all sorts of cool stuff.
I just wondered what
he was like then.
Well, actually, he hasn't
really changed that much
since he was a little boy!
He's always been
straightforward.
He'd always say, "I
never go back on my word!
"That's my Ninja Way!"
And sure enough, he stayed
true to what he said!
No matter what,
he always kept on forging
ahead and never gave up.
He valued his
friends very highly
and would do anything
to protect them,
and he was never dishonest.
That's just how
he's always been!
Mm-hmm.
Uh, anyway, your
dad was like that
since he was a little kid,
but after he met Master Jiraiya,
I think those feelings
grew even stronger.
"A real Ninja is
one who endures."
That's what Master Jiraiya said.
Your dad really took
those words to heart,
and he's never, ever given up!
And I've always been watching
your dad for a long time.
(harrumphing chuckle)
But come on, mom.
I bet that you could've
found someone way cooler
than a loser like Dad, right?
Even back then, just like
now, I loved your dad!
[Boruto And Himawari] Huh?
No way! Don't tell me you've
been in love with Dad
since you were a kid!
You both loved each other?
Uh, never mind!
Forget I said anything!
[Boruto] C'mon, mom, tell us!
[Hinata] No way!
[Himawari] Please
tell us, Mommy!
Yeah, come on!
(yawning)
Okay, so what am I
gonna to tomorrow
to find this "Make-Out
Tactics" book?
Huh!
Maybe he's got a
copy somewhere here.
I found it!
More than one copy, too!
Wow, what an awesome
student you are, dad!
All right!
Just what are you doing?
Oh!
This!
It's the novel that
Mister Jiraiya wrote!
D'you know about it, Mom?
I had such a hard
time finding a copy!
We were looking all
over for it today!
Guess I shoulda' known earlier
that Dad would have it!
You can't read this.
Sorry, but you're
still way too young.
[Sarada] Welcome home, Dad!
Thanks for all your hard work.
I know you're busy.
Are you eating properly?
I understand that you
don't get the chance
to come home very often,
but Mom was hoping that
we could eat together
once in a while.
Oh and Boruto keep
saying ask Mr. Sasuke
to borrow a copy of "Make-Out
Tactics" from Mr. Kakashi.
So, could you?
Thanks!
Love, Sarada
(chuckle)
I'm sorry about this, Sasuke,
But I gotta send you out.
It's all right.
Did something happen?
[Naruto] Yeah.
We received a report
from the guards
that are stationed
along the border.
The Otsutsuki is
apparently stealing chakra
from anyone he can.
I can't sense any Tailed
Beast chakra anymore.
So, they're being
hidden, are they?
These humans truly
are incredibly crafty!
(ending theme music)
Why am I the only one
who's been taken
off of that mission?
Urashiki has a
vendetta against you
because of your fight before.
What if Boruto and I
form a two-man team?
How does that sound?
Yeah, all right,
permission granted.
However, you're forbidden
from leaving the village.
Got it?
[Boruto] Next time on Boruto
Naruto Next Generations:
"Urashiki's Target."
[Urashiki] I'll just
take my sweet time
stealing the Nine Tail's Chakra.
(ending theme music)